# Ongoing

Go [here](https://github.com/beamylabs/beamylabs-start/discussions) to check
what's ongoing and try the latest featues.

# Get started with BeamyBroker

## Prerequisite

Docker version 20.10.8 or later is required.

> if you like to use the old instructions with older docker, go [here](https://github.com/beamylabs/beamylabs-start/tree/16e84cbac82a740abe189a92cd1a2c1405710516)

To be able to get going; that is docker pull, you need custom credentials.
Contact us at https://www.beamylabs.com

## Start

Clone this repository and make sure you have `docker` and `docker-compose`
installed, then run:

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

This command only needs to be run once. It is persistant over system reboot --
the containers will be restarted after a reboot, over and over again.

Point your web browser at the machine running BeamyBroker, an address like
`http://192.0.2.42:8080/`. If you are connected to a hosted WLAN Access Point
like `beamylabs`, the address should be `http://192.168.4.1:8080/`.

NOTE: if you change your interface settings you must restart by do doing
[STOP](#stop) and the start it again like above.

### Start in distributed mode

If you want to run BeamyBroker in the special distributed mode, its node name
needs to be set. Run it like this:

```bash
NODE_NAME=$(scripts/resolve-ip.sh eth0) docker-compose up -d
```

`$(scripts/resolve-ip.sh eth0)` assumes that the interface for your main
ethernet connection is called `eth0`. If that's not the case, you need to
change `eth0` to the correct name. (Hint: you can can find your interface name
using `ifconfig` or `ipconfig`).

## Stop

```bash
docker-compose down
```

## Upgrade (optionally in distributed mode)

When you upgrade; remember to upgrade **THIS** repository as well `git pull`,
as examples are continuously updated and improved. You will also find the
latest pre-generated grpc files in this repository.

```bash
git pull
./upgrade.sh
```

Alternatively, just pull the latest container images manually:

```base
docker-compose pull
```

If you are running in distributed mode, the same required node name should be
passed to the script, similar to when you first started the system:

```base
NODE_NAME=$(scripts/resolve-ip.sh eth0) ./upgrade.sh
```

### Upgrade through the web interface

It is possible to trigger an upgrade through the BeamyBroker web interface.
This require a service to be running. To install and start this service (only
needed once):

```bash
sudo scripts/install-service.sh
```

## Use a specific version (advanced feature)

To pull a specific version you can specify custom tag for `BEAMYBROKER_TAG` or
`BEAMYWEBCLIENT_TAG`, as in:

```bash
BEAMYBROKER_TAG=v0.0.7-4-g12 docker-compose up -d
```

## API - gRPC

The server is accesible using [gRPC](https://github.com/grpc/grpc#grpc---an-rpc-library-and-framework),
which effectively means that you can access it with your language of choice.
Stubs to access the server are generated by providing [proto files](proto_files/)
which contains the api specification.

Pre generated files and samples are avaliable for a selection of
[languages](examples/grpc). If you need another language you can get
inspiration by how it's done for python
[here](examples/grpc/python/README.md#re-generate-stubs).

## System configuration

BeamyBroker is configured using a `interfaces.json` an example can be found [here](examples/grpc/python/simple_ecu/configuration_can). All resources/files referenced needs to be provided to the server. There are several ways to configure BeamyBroker.
- Using web interface, `http://127.0.0.1:8080/#/configuration`
- Using code as done [here](examples/grpc/python/simple_ecu/ecu.py) where a folder is uploaded using `upload_folder` with all relevant files followed by a `reload_configuration`. This is recomended since it allows all clients to be self sufficent, allowing simple code sharing.

> an extensive reference can be found [here](configuration/interfaces_referense.json)

## Inspiration - get started

- [python](examples/grpc/python/README.md)
- [go](examples/grpc/go/README.md)
- [elixir](examples/grpc/elixir/car5g/README.md)
- [grpc-web](examples/grpc/grpc-web/README.md)
- [rust](examples/grpc/rust/beamybroker-pubsub-example/README.md)

## Statistics and usage

In order to understand usage of the product and it's enviroment it will try and
send system information based on your interfaces.json and it's execution
enviroment on start. The data is obfuscated and it is not distributed to any
other party. Its sole purpose is the make the software better.

This is not mandatoy and can be disabled, however to keep us motivated we would
please urge you not to disable this feature.
